TOPIC: reducing recidivism
SCOPE: 
TEACHER: A
LEARNER: B
CATEGORY: depressed_baseline
AUTHOR: real:annomi
SOURCE: eval_dataset/provenance/sess_CAL22.provenance.json

A: All right. Well, let's-let's just play with this idea a little bit, Daryl. So what did Fiona fall in love with? What were the qualities of Daryl that she said, "This is him"?
B: I was pretty romantic. I mean, I was pretty quite smooth, and, um, you know, I was on top of my game, like, she- and she loved it. And we used to laugh in the [unintelligible 00:06:45], you know? And just- it was always really sweet, and people used to say, "Oh, man, you two. You two have just got it," you know? And we lost it, so whatever that was, that's what she wants. We were young. How do you become young? Uh, you know, I'm old, and we'll keep growing old, but you know?
A: I know.
B: Like if I'm not careful, I will be.
A: Sure. Everyone will age, but that will happen on time.
B: Yeah, certainly.
A: Um, but that's okay. So-so it's she fell in love with this, the sense of fun, the sense of Daryl, and things have changed, but she's still with you?
B: Yeah.
A: Yeah?
B: Yeah.
A: Yeah. And you're still with her?
B: Yeah, yep.
A: Yeah. So catch me up with the conversations you've had with Fiona about this crossroads you're at. You know, these 22 days, you haven't gone back, you've coming out and you're not back? You could pick up this dealing quite easily and probably some workout here tomorrow and get back into it.
B: You know what? She hasn't even talked about the dealing, like, she won't even broach that subject. That's how black and white she is. She's- she'll be- she offers suggestions, you know? What I could do, and- or I kind of go with that, but none of them are-- You know, it's lovely that she's really finding things, but they're not the things. I mean, it-- I started kind of placating her and making it okay to keep giving me suggestions, but like, I need to come up with something because it's like awesome love, but you know, not in love, and she's getting sick of it already.
A: Okay. All right. So-so back together, things are starting to get tense at home, and your relationship a little bit?
B: A little bit that. Yeah, little-little bit tense. Yeah, that's fair.
A: Yeah. Don't put words in your mouth. I'm sure if that is—
B: No, they are.
A: Oh, yeah? Yeah?
B: I mean, not like they have been because we've only just started on the new road, but I mean, yeah, tense is the right word.
A: Second, I'd like to talk, Daryl, about this all- whole idea, that's this crossroads idea, yep? So on the one hand here, you've got this 12 year history of being in the other system and done some time and being away from Fiona, but you're now back, sitting back together, and you've got some choice about where to go. So, in that 'where to go', what ideas have you been thinking about in terms of where this-this Daryl, non-dealing [crosstalk] guy—
B: Well, I don't know. I haven't got little, um, nuggets of where I could go. I've just got like this feeling that I should go somewhere.
A: Okay. Yep. So a part of you knows you need to go something different, but the direction doesn't seem to be that clear at the moment?
B: Yeah.
A: It [unintelligible 00:09:33] picking up?
B: Yeah. No idea.
A: No idea. Okay. So I'm wondering, you've been in the system a while. You're now 34, is it right from the pick-up?
B: [nods].
A: Yeah. So, you know, often at 34, guys start to think about being with a girl in their life and what's important. And-and you would have also been part- not as a guy, so they've actually made some shifts and changes and thought, "Time to move on".
B: Yeah. Well, um—
A: And now you've got—
B: Not many.
A: Not many?
B: Mm-hmm.
A: But some.
B: Um, oh, I've got. Yeah, one. [chuckles]
A: One?
B: One.
A: Yeah.
B: Mm, yeah.
A: Yeah?
B: Okay, so, um—
A: Tell me something about that.
B: Well, he-he was- he was inside with me the first time I was ever inside, and now he's a drug counselor.
A: Okay.
B: So, he's the- he did it.
A: He did it?
B: I don't know how the fuck he did that, but, 'cause because he wasn't even a real addict, he was just-- Well, I mean, I don't know. He's very good with people.
A: Yeah.
B: Really good at talking, and, uh, but anyway, I don't know how he did it.
A: Cool. So how interested would you be to find out more information about how he did it? 'Cause I'm thinking about this is someone who you know, you've done time with, got a relationship.
B: Yeah, but I can't ever be a drug counselor.
A: No, I'm not suggesting you-- No, not about being a drug counselor, but about he made that transition from-from being involved in crime-
B: Yeah.
A: -to a transition about being in a different place.
B: Yeah. I think he would have found some higher power. They find-- I'm not gonna find one of them.
A: Okay, no 12-step higher power idea?
B: Yeah.
A: So that might work for him, but what might work for you?
B: I don't know. That's why I'm here.
A: Sure.
B: I don't know what that is.
A: Okay, so part of being here with me, and the work we might do, will be to find- try and find- search for that-
B: Okay.
A: -thing. Whatever it is.
B: Good luck.
A: Well, it's a search, isn't it?
B: Yeah, I don't mean to be rude-
A: No.
B: -but I do mean it's a big ask.
A: Yep, it is a big ask. So what qualities would you need to have to-to go there?
B: Fucking guts.
A: Guts? Yeah?
B: Is it a quality?
A: I think it is.
B: Yeah, I'd need some of them.
A: Yeah? So you're the sort of guy, Daryl, with guts?
B: Am I?
A: Yeah.
B: No, not yet.
A: Not yet?
B: Well, no I'm not.
A: Yeah?
B: No, I don't have that-that-that much courage.\
A: Yet you're sitting here with me today-
B: Oh, I have to.
A: -and-and-and you're talking about stuff.
B: Yeah.
A: Well, you're sitting here, and you're talking with me-
B: Oh, okay.
A: -about stuff that's-that's quite deep-
B: Yeah.
A: -in a way. Um, that takes guts. That takes courage.
B: All right.
A: In my view, it does.
B: Okay.
A: 'Cause you could've come in here and said-
B: It's a bit awkward.
A: -"Look, Ken, you know, I'll come in, report in, I'm outta here."
B: Ah, yeah. I could've done that
A: You could've done that, but you're not. So I'm wondering what's different? 'Cause you may have done that in the past, I don't know, Daryl, with other people like me, but-but sounds like something's different this time.
B: I'm older, you know? It's not as much fun.
A: Yeah?
B: I used to take the piss outta you guys-
A: Yeah.
B: -all day long. We all do, but-
A: Sure.
B: -it's not funny. I mean, and you're-you're a good guy, I imagine. I mean, in fact, you don't deserve my shit. I just-- I don't know. Good luck.
A: I kind of see a sense of sadness there when you have to kind of think about this.
B: Oh, sadness. You know, I don't wanna wallow, you know? You know, you've gotta take, you know-- You make your own opportunity in life, don't you?
A: Yeah.
B: I just never did.
A: Okay. So I'm interested in this idea, let's, uh-- Opportunities come and go all the time.
B: Do they?
A: They do.
B: All right. Not to me.
A: Well you said before you had an opportunity to pick up and start dealing again.
B: Oh, yeah. Oh, heaps of those opportunities.
A: And-and so-so-so there's opportunities- there's opportunities in one world, and I'm wondering about what might make it hard to see opportunities in a different world?
B: Yeah, well, the different world isn't offering me opportunities. The different world is offering me a night shift, and minimum wage, and, you know, nothing. So it's like, set-set yourself up, set your goal up, or, um, don't, and that's your-your pro-social living, and that's your, you know, old behaviors.
A: Sure, sure. You're in the system-
B: Mm-hmm.
A: -you're not in the system. Pick up that, where is it gonna take you?
B: The system?
A: Yeah, what-what's gonna happen if you start dealing again?
B: Man, I've been fighting that system-
A: Yeah.
B: -and all it takes me back is to the-the inside-
A: Okay, okay.
B: -I mean—
A: So-So again, I'm-I'm wondering about this other world, and you're saying it doesn't look to attractive at the moment.
B: Well, I can't see it.
A: You can't se it?
B: You know what, if I knew what they'd look like-
A: Yeah?
B: -I-I might, you know, buy that.
A: Yeah? You just described to me how it looked like a minute ago.
B: Did I?
A: Minimum wage-
B: Oh yeah.
A: -night shift, petrol station.
B: Yeah, that's not much fun. That doesn't look very good.
A: Yeah?
B: Yeah, that looks really hard.
A: Yeah? It is really hard.
B: I know that's the right thing, uh, don't get me wrong.
A: Sure.
B: That is gut right there, going to a job you hate, going home, cooking yet missus a dinner, looking after your kids. I mean, that is-- That's what it real mean does, but I don't have that-- Th-those guts to do- to do what you do.
A: Sure. We talked about courage before and you've got the guts to be talking with me about this stuff today, and I'm wondering if you actually do have some courage to think about these ideas. I'm not saying that pumping gas at minimum wage is where you wanna go, but-but the guts to actually start steeping into this other world. I wonder if you do have, I'm-I'm-I'm just not sure.
B: I-- Hmm, maybe.
A: Maybe. You're not convinced at the moment, I understand that and, um—
B: No. You know, convince me because, you know, I kind of want to be.
A: Sure. Well, it's hard to me to convince you-
B: Right.
A: -'cause this is your life and this is your story, and you-you've got to walk your life and I can't walk your life for you. I only walk my. And so, but I can walk with you on this life to try and think about-- 'Cause I-I-- You know, I-I've no interest in actually you falling over and going back into-into a lifestyle a crime 'cause I know where it'll take you. And I'm hearing that with your relationship, where it's going to take your relationship too, [unintelligible 00:16:39] got the bottom line drawn pretty clearly.
B: Mm.
A: So it seems like what's gonna push in this direction, just tip that balance a little bit to give this other world of go? Because it is new, it's different. It means doing stuff, a lot of stuff actually that-that's kind of mundane.
B: It is the little things, yeah, like waking up, and having a cup of tea and sitting on the porch is kind of cool.
A: It's kind of cool?
B: Yeah.
A: Not part of on the wire?
B: No, you don't get to sit outside-
A: No?
B: -on the porch.
A: You don't. And who's sitting on the porch with you?
B: No one. It's morning, it's just me.
A: Mm-hmm.
B: Birds, trees, yada yada.
A: Cool. So I'm picking up this world actually has the freedom to you to be your own man?
B: Mm, you know, maybe.
A: Maybe?
B: I don't-- You know, that-that was nice. If it was full of bits like that, sure, but I mean, you know, eventually you have to go off to your job and-
A: Yeah?
B: -you know, pay your-your wages, I mean your-your mortgage and-and-
A: Yeah.
B: -it's just massive.
A: Yeah it is. It is.
B: It is.
A: Absolutely massive. And, uh-- So, is there a challenge you're up to, to start creating some-some-some of that sort of world for Fiona? 'Cause I'm hearing that—
B: You know, people like me are unaccepted into that world though. You know? I've got-- I don't have qualifications. All my mates are in Australia working awesome jobs, mining for 160K a year, you know? Just being men digging holes. Like, if I could do that, yeah, all good but fuck, I have just come out of prison, I don't have any NCEA. I, uh, I had one opportunity and I fucked that because I can't do night shift 'cause I'm lazy. You know? Maybe the world is giving me opportunities and I just don't need them. Maybe I can't do that.
A: Sure. So what I'm hearing is, you're not convinced at the moment.
B: No, I'm definitely not convinced.
A: No. So what would convince you to-to make that shift? 'Cause I hear a lot of kind of-- And in this hard, like, y-you've done time and then once you've got a record, the employers- you know, we know, I know that. That's-that's not easy. You can't just wonder into a job, a high-paying job and go, "Pick me, pick me, pick me." I know that.
B: No.
A: You know that.
B: Yeah, I know.
A: So, um-- And-and maybe it's about small steps and first steps.
B: Yeah. I mean, yeah, it is obviously, it is first steps, but I mean, what's that? What's the first step into the pro-social life?
A: Well, you trying to get a job, maybe and get into some routine.
B: I just know if I get a job that I hate, I just won't do it.
A: Okay.
B: You know, I can make in an hour what I can make in a night or a week of nights. It's pretty-- You know, from where I'm from that a really-- You know, there's no decision at all, that's just like, what are you up to if you don't?
A: Yeah. I'm confused though at the moment because you're saying, "Yeah, I could make in a night what you make in a week," but you've haven't. 22-22 days-
B: Yeah.
A: -and you haven't done that. So-so tell me what that's about.
B: I just told myself I wouldn't this time and then Fiona said, "You will not" this time.
A: So you told yourself you wouldn't, so you're once you- you're the sort of guy that once you make a decision you're gonna go, you're staunch with that decision?
B: Yeah, even if it's the wrong one, yes.
A: Oh, it's a decision whether it's right or wrong-- It's not gonna be-
B: Yeah, but I'm that kinda guy.
A: Yeah, you're that kinda guy okay, so once you make a decision. So you made a decision that you're not gonna- you're not gonna go back to dealing?
B: Oh no there wasn't a decision to made, I just said, "I won't yet".
A: Yet.
B: Yeah, I said yet.
A: You're keeping the door open-
B: Yeah.
A: -at the moment, is what I'm picking up.
B: I hate that.
A: Yeah, okay, so that will be a call you-you've got to make.
B: Mm.
